Release notes v13.1.0 (#1600)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/release-notes/v13.1.0.md

---
id: v13.1.0
title: Version 13.1.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.1.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_August 29th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.1.0 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on September 12th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.1.0 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

> ### Breaking Changes

Reviewer: This is not a breaking change yet, it will be breaking in the following minor.

Reviewer: we should also warn users to upgrade their miactl version

Reviewer 2: ok, checks the latest commits with the improvements

Reviewer 3: The description seems good to me.

I'd add this suggestion to remove the _Breaking change_ title, since it is now unused.

```suggestion
```

The body of the `PUT /api/extensibility/tenants/{tenantId}/extensions` used to register extensions has been modified and simplified, along with the manifest to be sent using the miactl `extensions apply` command.

> :::danger

Reviewer: this is not a danger, is a interesting note about the fact that it is not breaking yet, i'd change this to a more positive banner (e.g. a tip?)

---
id: v13.1.0
title: Version 13.1.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.1.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_August 29th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.1.0 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on September 12th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.1.0 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Breaking Changes

### New Features

### Improvements

#### New Apply Extension Body Schema

The `PUT /api/extensibility/tenants/{tenantId}/extensions` used to register extensions supports a new body format that is more clear and simple to use, along with the manifest to be sent using the miactl `extensions apply` command.  

:::tip

> The legacy body format is still supported until the next version, but it is advisable to start using the new schema following the instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legacy body format is still supported until the next minor version, we strongly suggest to to start using the new schema following the instructions below as soon as possible.

```

> In addition, the new format can only updating miactl to the version 0.15.

Reviewer: ```
In addition, make sure to upgrade [`miactl`](LINK TO MIACTL DOC) to version 0.15 to make use of the new format.

```

- **categoryRoute** is the last route in the `routes` legacy properties that defines renderType as `category`. This is the custom category registered with the extension and it could be omitted in the request, in fact in this case the new `category` properties will have only the `id` defined taken by the `mainRoute.parentId`. In the example above there is a custom category and corresponding to the route with `my-menu-group` ID.

After migration the new body format is the following:

```json
{
  "extensionId": "my-extension-id",
  "name": "My Extension",
  "entry": "https://example.com/",
  "type": "iframe",
  "activationContexts": ["project"],
  "description": "Example Extension",
  "permissions": [],
  "destination": {
      "id": "project",
      "path": "/",
  },
  "iconName": "PiProjectorScreenChartLight",
  "menu": {
    "id": "my-route",
    "labelIntl": {
      "en": "My Extension",
      "it": "La mia estensione"
    },
    "order": 200.0,
  },
  "category": { 
      "id": "my-menu-group",
      "labelIntl": {
        "en": "My Menu Group",
        "it": "Il mio gruppo menu"
      },
      "order": 100.0,
  }
}
```
</details>

### Bug Fix

> This version addressed the following bugs:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This version addressed the following bugs:

* In Design Overview, when exporting Data Catalog records, documents that contained array values within `jsonSchemaType` and `ddlSchemaType` are now properly parsed and validated, so that they are returned in the resulting CSV file
```

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

### Back-Kit Library

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### API Portal

The new version `2.1.0` of the API Portal is available!

##### New Features

Added support to OAuth 2.0 Authorization customizations

##### Bug fix

* Fixed scroll behavior with bottom elements
* Edited warning note in download modal

#### Swagger Aggregator

The new version `3.8.0` of the Swagger Aggregator is available!

##### New Features

Added support to OAuth 2.0 Authorization customizations

#### CRUD Service

The new version `7.1.0` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### New Features

Added the possibility to specify where `crypt_shared` MongoDB dynamic library is located through the new, optional environment variable `CRYPT_SHARED_LIB_PATH`

##### Improvements

* Enforce quoting all strings in CSV export to prevent issues with delimiter character

##### Bug fix

* Fixed a crash caused by the service being configured to run with the CSFLE feature enabled and a Mongo View defined alongside the collections models

## How to update your Console

> For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `x.x.x`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.7.0-beta.0`.

```
